Now, this is a prime example of how to adapt an manga into an anime the RIGHT way. The original Fullmetal Alchemist, though well made and very popular, went into a downward spiral as soon as it diverted from the manga storyline and never seemed to recover. This however, shows that instead of trying to add their own story elements when adapting manga/visual novels etc., sometimes anime producers should just sit back and retell the great story that has already been written in the original.

This anime starts off at a breakneck pace. It shoots entire volumes of the manga in a couple of episodes. It was to be expected though, as Bones is trying to fit 100+ chapters of manga into a 1-year long series. However, once you get used to it the pacing seems very appropriate for the series and only seems to increase the suspense. While small elements have been omitted from the manga, these are mainly non-essential and have no impact on the story. Yet while many of these omitted elements are comedic in nature, Brotherhood still manages to switch between seriousness and comedy so fast you'll get whiplash. I quite enjoyed this particularly as a sort of trademark of the series. The actual plot-line twists and turns in unexpected ways and keeps you on the edge of your seat, and the climax grips you like no other. Many disregard the plot as being generically shonen, but it is these twists and its exploration into the psyche and motivation of the characters that propel it past this "generic shonen" label.

The art is of a different style to the original FMA. It is a little simpler, and comedic scenes sometimes even stray into an outright chibi style, but this is by no means a bad thing. If anything it is closer to the the style that Hiromu Arakawa draws with in the manga. What its lacking in detail, it makes up for with first-class fight sequences (as to be expected of Bones). The animation overall is quite polished and character movements are very fluid and natural.

The characters on both sides really caught my attention as one of this series' strengths. It boasts a diverse range of characters, all of which have considerable substance and a distinct purpose in the storyline. The Homunculi especially turn out to be completely different from the original Fullmetal Alchemist anime, and more awesome in my opinion. Edward and Alphonse are still the main focus of the story as they quest to find the Philosophers' Stone and restore their bodies, but now Winry also takes a more central role along with Ed and Al's father, Hohenheim. There is also a host of new characters which didn't feature in the first anime adaptation, including a few from the mysterious country Xing and a new main villain. Being completely faithful to the manga, all the characters' separate journeys and origins are told in much greater detail. Each character's values and beliefs are tested almost to breaking point as the story reaches its later stages, providing a somewhat surprising and refreshing depth to the cast.

The one thing I initially disliked about this series was the soundtrack, which lacked substance and was very repetitive. The first opening was brilliant, one of the best I have seen, but the background music was lacklustre. However, as the series went on more music was added and the soundtrack began to add a great atmosphere to fight scenes and dialogue alike. The voice actors also really show their ability throughout the series and seem very well suited to their roles. With such an all-star cast of voice-actors you wouldn't expect any less.

Overall Bones has done an awesome job surpassing its previous effort and faithfully retelling the Fullmetal Alchemist manga. Enjoyment wise, you'd be hard pressed to find a shonen anime that will entertain you as much as FMA Brotherhood. Truly a great anime, there's no other way to describe it. A must-see for people new to anime and hardened otakus alike. Overall score: 9.4/10 (rounded to 9).
