One Punch Man is a comedy/parody shounen anime. Unfortunately it fails as a parody and it fails as a shounen.

The Comedy:
Saitama, the main protagonist, is really really strong, but he's also bored. He is so strong that he doesn't even get excited while fighting really strong opponents. That's the main joke of the anime, and if you don't like it, well, too bad, because it will be shoved down your throat every single episode. There's nothing much else to talk about him, it's basically all his personality.

Outside of Saitama the humor is pretty much hit or miss. It's funny, because this is supposed to be a parody anime, but even then it takes itself wayyyy too seriously. Expect the typical epic/dramatic ost playing often, innocent people suffering and in danger, melodramatic speechs about justice, etc etc. After thorwing all that at you the main character, bored as always, will easily defeat the dangerous villain. OPM lives in a weird limbo between typical shounen and parody, it would probably be better if it decided what it wants to be.



The Plot:
The anime is pretty much plotless. A random generic villain will appear, cause some ruckus, and be defetead by the bored bald protagonist every time. At some point a hero association appears, what about it? It serves to introduce new characters, and that's it. The association does nothing the whole anime, as far as the anime goes there's no conspiracy behind it or anything. The main character wants to go up in the association, but of course that doesn't matter one bit, it only serves to provide some more "hilarious" jokes about how the main character is so strong and yet he is misunderstood by everybody.

There's nothing to keep you hooked and wanting more, wondering what will happen next. If, god forbid, a second season is made I pretty expect to be exactly the same thing as season 1: main protagonist is bored jokes and generic villains appearing, with pretty much nothing else.



Sound:
Nothing much to talk about really. One or two tracks are good I guess, the rest is average.



Art/Animation:
The art is bland and forgetble. The animation is good and fluid, but to be honest the fights itselves are not that good. Everything is so fast, it's difficult to see things clearly sometimes. Although this anime really is above average in this category, it seems like a child throwing a tauntrum to get your attention: there is very little variety in the fights (every character pretty much fights like a DBZ character), it is all completely predictable, but hey, it looks cool, and the camera spins really fast, and there is epic music, so it is good, right???



Veridict:
OPM is all flash and no substance. It should mantain your attention for at least these 12 episodes, but that's it. It's just one more of those anime who pander the lowest common denominator. If you are expecting something truly interesting, fun or exciting you can forget it. 
